ANATOMY
Question: What is an Eye?
Choice A: A Fleshy Ball
Choice B: A Vitruous Liquid Container
Choice C: A Light-Based Sensory Organ
Choice D: All of the Above
Answer: D

Question: What is the embryological origin of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)?
Choice A: Surface ectoderm
Choice B: Neural crest
Choice C: Mesoderm
Choice D: Neuroectoderm
Answer: D

Question: Which of the following cell types is responsible for transducing light into electrical signals in the retina under low-light conditions?
Choice A: Cones
Choice B: Rods
Choice C: Ganglion cells
Choice D: Amacrine cells
Answer: B

Question: What do eyes use to see?
Choice A: Magic
Choice B: The Force
Choice C: Light
Choice D: Friendship
Answer: C

Question: Which part of the eye controls the amount of light that enters?
Choice A: Lens
Choice B: Iris
Choice C: Retina
Choice D: Optic Nerve
Answer: B

Question: Which of the following structures is responsible for producing aqueous humor?
Choice A: Lacrimal gland
Choice B: Ciliary body
Choice C: Choroid
Choice D: Retina
Answer: B

PATHOLOGY
Question: What is the common name for conjunctivitis?
Choice A: Pinkeye
Choice B: Stye
Choice C: Cataract
Choice D: Glaucoma
Answer: A

Question: Which of the following best describes the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)?
Choice A: Acute angle closure leading to rapid IOP elevation and optic nerve damage.
Choice B: Progressive degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and optic nerve axons due to complex interaction of factors, including elevated intraocular pressure and genetic predisposition.
Choice C: Neovascularization of the iris and angle, obstructing aqueous outflow.
Choice D: Inflammation and scarring of the trabecular meshwork.
Answer: B

Question: Nearsightedness is also known as what?
Choice A: Hyperopia
Choice B: Myopia
Choice C: Astigmatism
Choice D: Presbyopia
Answer: B

Question: A patient presents with diplopia, ptosis, and mydriasis. Which cranial nerve is most likely affected?
Choice A: Trigeminal Nerve (CN V)
Choice B: Facial Nerve (CN VII)
Choice C: Oculomotor Nerve (CN III)
Choice D: Trochlear Nerve (CN IV)
Answer: C

Question: What part of the eye is affected by macular degeneration?
Choice A: Cornea
Choice B: Lens
Choice C: Retina
Choice D: Optic Nerve
Answer: C

Question: A 68-year-old patient reports gradual central vision loss. Fundoscopic examination reveals drusen and pigmentary changes in the macula. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Choice A: Cataracts
Choice B: Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma
Choice C: Age-Related Macular Degeneration
Choice D: Diabetic Retinopathy
Answer: C
